Now, I update DOMs off the call stack,
user takes action.
Let's get the user taking some
action because it's time people for
some user input, and
the thing they're gonna do is type.
So why we're having the user type and
they are gonna type,
let's have them type Y.
So then I only type y, y shows up,
everything in green is user action,
value is updated to y.
As our friend online said, hold on, excuse
me, why do I need to then update a value?
Well, right now for our benefit in terms
of structure of our code, see there's
only as a brief submission by the user
to please go update the JavaScript data.
And then assume once it's updated,
here our giant converter
will throw that all back,
our VDOM will evaluate to a full
description with this inserted and
evaluated, and display update,
what the user sees.
How do we have that happen?
How do we even trigger JavaScript
code to run from user action?
Via a handler, our function handle here,
using the incredible event feature
of the DOM, the vital feature,
if you're not allowed to
run code directly in C++.
And regardless, when you don't know
when a user's gonna take an action,
you need to have a structure whereby you
can trigger code to execute, which we do.
And so this was already
off the call stack, sorry.
And now talk me through,
who's, I don't know.
Well, all I wanna know is why,
talk me through?
Sorry, why?
Talk me through, what's gonna happen?
>> The function definition handle
gets put onto the callback queue.
>> Beautiful.
>> Gets pulled off of it and
put onto the call stack.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> Gets those pink parens.
>> I love it.
The pink parens representing our friend
JavaScript, taking a lead here and
adding those, there they are.
And -.
>> The thread will then
invoke the handle function.
>> I love that, yep.
And create a new what, why?
>> Execution content.
>> Yeah.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Exactly.
And it's really basic what it does
because all it's gonna do is update data,
it's not allowed to do anything else,
so taught me through that.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
It goes to the JS input accessor object,
looks up the value key or
calls the getter setter method.
>> Yeah, even now it's worth
being as crisp as possible,
exactly which is gonna
retrieve what value?
>> That string, the letter Y.
>> Y, exactly, which is gonna
be saved as a JavaScript string
into our global label,
our global data name, is that right?
Yeah, perfect.
>> That is the only thing that
happens in response to the user input.
>> Perfect.
>> But 15 milliseconds later.
>> Exactly.
So it handles off the call stack,
it's finished doing its only job from
the user, and these again are not trues,
they're just approaches.
There you go.
>> [LAUGH]
>> They're just approaches to thinking
about how to structure code when it is so
with two elements,
tricky to follow the flow.
But I can think we can see with two
elements at least here where we have
a full description and
the data is anything the user can change,
full description being this array here.
Well, the description,
I guess is generically in the code, but
it evaluates to a full data-driven
description here in the actual memory
becomes a lot prettier to track
your head around, I think.
So as you say, why have I update DOM?
Tell me what's gonna happen there.
Please do keep interrupting me
because you're doing a great job.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
So yeah, 15 milliseconds later,
we get the update DOM function
put onto the callback queue and
then immediately brought onto the call
stack, assuming there's a user interrupts.
From there, it gets the pink params,
it gets invoked.
>> Yeah, you are doing a great job.
Brilliant update DOM
>> Should I go into the update DOM?
>> Yeah, let's do it.
And if you want to leave the chorus,
I said just go ahead.
A brand new, everybody.
>> Execution context.
>> Exactly.
For people who are bored of that online,
I really don't blame you,
simple pleasures for me, I suppose.
There it is.
There we go.
So update DOM brand new execution context,
first thing it does is, well,
keep me going actually while
you're helping my brain here.
Thank you.
>> It invokes the createvDOM function and
then assigns the return value
to the closure in VDOM variable.
>> Yeah.
Well, we're not closing in here,
right, we're doing the global,
we're avoiding doing anything.
Did you say closure?
Yeah, exactly.
We are not having to deal with that,
we're doing an in global for everything.
So it's gonna reassign, it's gonna
wipe this, we could archive this.
Imagine we archive this,
then we'd know exactly what changed
between our two different states,
the two different user actions
cuz the only way that a user
actually can affect is via state.
So we'd have a full history
in every version of this.
That's kind of cool, right?
And what if we can use that at
some later point, but for now,
let's just get rid of it.
A bit wasteful of us, but I feel like we
could definitely use the information there
about what actually changed in terms of
the real page, but we're not going to.
So we're gonna reassign to
vDOM exactly as before,
it's gonna create that array of arrays.
This time,
it's telling me the evaluated result
of it based on this data
where name is now y.
>> It gives us a two-dimensional array?
>> Yep.
>> The first item or the zero index
item is an array with the items and
the string input name which currently
is just the letter y, the string.
>> Exactly.
And -.
>> And always difficult isn't with
user actions, it's not in the code,
it's an outsider system input, and it
came in here with the string y, perfect.
And then -.
>> And then the final item in that
first array is the handle function.
>> Brilliant, which the way we wrote our
convert, will then become our handler.
And that's just the way we
wrote our convert function, and
true about this again,
it's just the way we did it and then
>> And then -.
>> And then the second and final Item in
the array is another array with two items,
the first, the string div.
>> Yep.
>> The second is the interpolated
string, hello y.
>> Yes, exactly.
We don't leave it as just a template
literal, we evaluate it, and therefore,
we get a real data updated rendition of
what's gonna show up on the DOM itself.
Beautiful.
We're able to do that because there's
nothing that's gonna be here that isn't
described in JavaScript
based off our states.
So, we have done why our createVDom
call that has reproduced
our description with
the latest data in JavaScript.
And so why, what do we do with that
updated description of our elements?
To the way
>> We pass the first of the two items in
the VDOM array to the function convert,
and
we'll assign the output of
that to the JS input variable.
The convert function -.
>> Well, yeah,
I'm sure we can do this by analogical way.
Maybe not.
Maybe not. Maybe not.
What am I talking about?
No, we're gonna do it in full.
Now the whole thing.
VDOM position 0 is at input y and
handle, right?
>> Input y and handle function.
Yep, perfect.
And that's going to what?
Or talk me through why you do a great job.
>> So yeah, it's going to
create inside of the function
a new JavaScript successor object and
DOM node.
>> Yes, what did I say?
Access to the object and
DOM C++ associated node, exactly right.
That C++ is only the node,
is it gonna be appended yet?
It is not.
>> It is not, it is gonna be
in this unattached area here.
>> The specific node type is going
to be taken from the 0th item
of the node param,
which in this case is input.
>> Is input, perfect.
So we took node 0 and
used that to create a new element.
I guess, we then also as you say, return
out is all happening inside of convert.
We then returned out into LM,
the local label for
it inside of this running of convert,
inside of this execution context
which we're not actually showing,
because we're trying.
To some extent,
we don't need to worry at this point,
we can just rely on update DOM, basically,
to update what shows up from here to here,
but we're just gonna map through for
our purposes.
We're also then gonna have on our
value here via the setting of LM
using the value setter.
What are we gonna set
our value here to be?
>> And for that we're going
to set it to the string y.
>> y, from our memory, so
it's gonna be in white.
And then we're gonna set
our input handler, again,
all happening inside of LM, where
we're doing now the onInput setter and
assigning node position 2,
which is our what function?
>> It's our callback function.
>> Which is called what?
>> Sorry, handle.
>> Handle, beautiful.
Exactly, our callback function is
a generic term, for you're exactly right.
Perfect.
And in JavaScript,
we got a link, my goodness.
We got a link to it in JavaScript,
we got a link, so
this deleted this object, brand new one.
All right,
I'm not gonna draw out again, I reckon.
Let's have it just go to this new input,
beautiful.
But this is a brand new object,
the last access object gone.
Okay, by analogy,
we also created what here,
why in our DOM in line 13 where
VDOM position one has div hello y.
What's also gonna show up here in our DOM?
>> By analogy, we're creating an element
using the node 0 which is div.
>> Yeah.
>> We are going to assign it text content.
>> Of?
>> Hello, y.
>> Beautiful, yeah.
Hello, y!
And we're gonna get what here
to replace this JSDiv object?
I'm just gonna do it this time rather
than ask the question for so long.
And create what in this object as
the output of running convert VDOM
position one?
>> Another JavaScript accessor object
to be able to interact with the -.
>> Beautiful,
with useful properties like text content.
And a hidden link to this div.
Perfect, and then this is a getter setter
property that could be used as we did
use it inside of convert when LM was the
label for this object before we returned
it out from convert into jsDiv on our
latest running update DOM where we didn't
even actually write the convert here,
but we know it was just run by us.
We just talked it through,
and there it is on VDOM.
And then in line 14, why, what happens?
>> Finally, we call the replace
children method over the body
object of the document
object exposed by window and
we're passing it jsInput and jsDiv.
>> Beautiful.
And what's that gonna
do on our actual DOM?
Because that's where this is happening,
that's going to replace
our linked elements,
it's gonna replace our former
now unlinked elements with what?
Why?
>> With the two newest
versions of jsInput and jsDiv.
>> Linked here via our access objects,
these are replaced and
actually deleted because,
did I lose the, these are replaced and
actually deleted,
therefore gone, gone, gone!
And we get a link instead,
we get attached instead input and div,
so not a link but attached instead
input and div, that then immediately
show up on our page with the y,
the user never knew what happened.
Albeit, we had to refocus the element.
In practice, we'd have had an end of
our update DOM after the replacement.
jsInput.focus invoked to make sure
the cursor was back in here so
the user wasn't frustrated,
they typed, and then it's bounced out.
And then our div which says Hello, y!
People, let's give a big hand.
[APPLAUSE] Yeah, absolutely y.
Beautiful, absolutely outstanding
technical communication.
So I mean, for everybody,
but that was excellent.
We ended up with in JavaScript
a visual representation of what was
the show up on our page.
We then had our state, add data run
through it every time the data changed
such that we had a visual representation
with actual accurate data in JavaScript,
which we by the way
could have archived and
maybe use the changes
between it in some way,
before that then gets rendered displayed
on the page through our convert functions.
For the first time,
you have a return of descriptive
code that describes its
output in JavaScript.
And we're very lucky to have it.
[LAUGH] Yes.
It depends on the the restriction of
the user only gets to see things that
are a direct consequence of
underlying JavaScript data.
There is nothing on here that is not
captured as a consequence in our
update DOM converter.
Well, actually, sorry.
Where are we describing the relationship
between the data and the view now?
Well, whatever.
Alexa, where are we describing
the relationship between the data and
the view?
>> In our VDOM.
>> Exactly, in our array.
Exactly, that's now a very visual
description of what we were previously
doing, it's really cool,
then we use the actual process of
turning that into elements imperatively.
The descriptive process in the,
well Alexa, in the which function?
>> Convert.
>> In the convert for each element.
And so we now finally, but it does rest
on every single thing the user sees.
We could totally write code by the way in
this VDOM creation that says only produce
div based on some sort
of conditional logic,
a ternary could evaluate right there.
That's kind of cool.
We can have our full description
of the element, its handler,
its content in that list, but
that requires that everything the user
sees always is a direct consequence
of state of data in JavaScript.
Meaning the user can only
have consequence of what they
see via a handler function
that only changes state, and
then we pipe it back through to display.
All right, people, there we had it,
we got a couple of thumbs.
A virtual DOM, I hope it even
seems a little bit, that's it.
Blocks of code representing
each piece of view.
We could create them with functions,
we could have a function called to
create that block of view, and we will.
JavaScript array, in this case,
of all the details and
a function that takes in that array and
produces an actual DOM.
And that's our convert function call
that we went from doing in full,
to doing somewhat, to not even writing it.
Because to be honest, we only think about
it because it's all described for us here.
Isn't that kind of nice?
And then where we place the elements in
the code mirrors the order they show up.
However, as we saw in arrays earlier,
not very flexible right now, is it?